Hamlib - (C) Frank Singleton 2000 (vk3fcs@ix.netcom.com)
         (C) Stephane Fillod 2000-2011
         (C) The Hamlib Group 2000-2011

The purpose of this project is to provide stable, flexible, shared libraries
that enable quicker development of Amateur Radio Equipment Control
Applications.

Many Amateur Radio Transceivers come with serial interfaces that allows
software to control the radio. This project will endeavour to provide shared
libraries that greatly simplify the application programmer's interaction
with radio equipment and other controllable devices such as rotators,
switches, etc.

Supported Radios
----------------

The Hamlib Wiki page, Supported Radios, contains a snapshot of the supported
radio at the time of the last Hamlib release.  Go to http://www.hamlib.org
to reach the Wiki.

Hamlib Design
-------------

The shared libs will provide functions for both radio control,
and data retrieval from the radio.

The structure of the libraries will be as follows.

(1)  There will be 1 frontend library "libhamlib" that
     provides the generic API for user applications.

(2)  There will be "n" backend libraries that "wrap"
     rig specific communications inside frontend API.

(3)  Frontend lib will load (on demand) the appropriate
     backend lib as required.

Frontend Library
----------------

libhamlib.so -  frontend lib that provides generic API
                for all RIG types. This is what Application
                programmers will "see".

Backend Examples are:
---------------------

1.hamlib-yaesu.so will provide connectivity to Yaesu
  FT 747GX Transceiver, FT 847 "Earth Station", etc. via a standard API.

2. hamlib-xxxx.so will provide connectivity to the Wiz-bang
   moon-melter 101A (yikes..)

Hamlib will also enable developers to develop professional looking GUI's
towards a standard control library API, and they would not have to worry
about the underlying connection towards physical hardware.

Initially serial (RS232) connectivity will be handled, but we expect that IP
(and other) connectivity will follow afterwards.  Connection via a USB port
is accomplished via the Linux kernel support.  USB to serial converters are
well supported.  Other such devices may be supported as long as they present
a serial (RS-232) interface to Hamlib.

Recompiling
-----------

Hamlib is entirely developed using GNU tools, under various Linux systems.
That is, if you want to take part in the development of Hamlib, you'll need
at least the following tools:
    * autoconf > 2.54
    * automake > 1.7
    * libtool  > 1.5|2.2.6
    * doxygen
    * svn and ssh to connect to http://sourceforge.net/

There are also the README.betatester and README.developer files in this
directory if you feel like testing or hacking Hamlib.  Otherwise,
contributions of rig specifications and protocol documentation are highly
encouraged.  Do keep in mind that in some cases the manufacturer may not
provide complete control information or it is only available under a
Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA).  Any documentation *must* be publicly
available so we can legally write and distribute Free Software supporting a
given device.

However, if you just want to recompile the library, please refer to the
INSTALL and README.betatester files.

IMPORTANT: If autoconf or automake are installed on your system, make sure
they are matching *at least* the version shown above.  The Hamlib team is
very interested to hear from you, how Hamlib builds and works on your
system, especially on non-Linux system or non-PC systems. We try to make
Hamlib as portable as possible.

Please report in case of problems at hamlib-developer@lists.sourceforge.net
Patches in unified diff format are welcome too!

Most distributions have the latest Hamlib release in their testing or alpha
versions of their distribution.  Check your package manager for the Hamlib
version included in your distribution.

Take a look at tests/README for more info on simple programming examples and
test programs.

Also, take a look at http://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib/ Here you will
find a mail list, and the latest releases.  Feedback, questions, etc. about
Hamlib are very welcome at the mail list:
<hamlib-developer@lists.sourceforge.net>

Have Fun / Frank S / Stephane F / The Hamlib Group

  73's de vk3fcs/km5ws / f8cfe

